I'm not doing great following instructions. I accidentally stepped ahead of the teacher. Although, it makes me feel smarter. But I'm not. I've been working on git shit all day through a different medium.

I need to make a list of git commands if I plan on continuing to use git
from the command line.

I think the staging area allows for finer control.

I don't know that I see a need for it... at least in my programming skill
so far. But maybe in the future

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

So. The weird thing seems to be that the staging area allows me to make many changes
then come back and group the changes so that they are in a logical form
then commit them in groups.

It makes sense... from the point of view of people who are working with many files on 
many things. Otherwise you could only really do one thing at a time.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Experimental branches seem useful. Allows major changes in the code without fear of screwing up your main program.
Allows you to work on multiple versions of the same thing.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Makes it significantly easier to follow along.
Also, it makes me think I will need to diagram a lot of things. Program structure
gets rapidly confusing for me

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
The result can be interesting and weird. I had a conflict, and I couldn't figure out the problem
until i went and looked it up on the forum. I had forgotten to end a line with a semicolon.
I didn't see anything in the merge conflict that indicated that. I don't know how I would have figured it out.
  We represent them in the diagram to indicate a connection and to show visually how they connect to their parents

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
automatic merging can make mistakes with the merges. Manual merging is tedious